---
layout: default
title: ICU Data
nav_order: 13
has_children: true
---
<!--
© 2020 and later: Unicode, Inc. and others.
License & terms of use: http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html
-->

# ICU Data
{: .no_toc }

## Contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Overview

ICU makes use of a wide variety of data tables to provide many of its services.
Examples include converter mapping tables, collation rules, transliteration
rules, break iterator rules and dictionaries, and other locale data. Additional
data can be provided by users, either as customizations of ICU's data or as new
data altogether.

This section describes how ICU data is stored and located at run time. It also
describes how ICU data can be customized to suit the needs of a particular
application.

For simple use of ICU's predefined data, this section on data management can
safely be skipped. The data is built into a library that is loaded along with
the rest of ICU. No specific action or setup is required of either the
application program or the execution environment.

Update: as of ICU 64, the standard data library is over 20 MB in size. We have
introduced a new tool, the [ICU Data Build Tool](./icu_data/buildtool.md),
to give you more control over what goes into your ICU locale data file.

> :point_right: **Note**: ICU for C by default comes with pre-built data.
> The source data files are included as an "icu\*data.zip" file starting in ICU4C 49.
> Previously, they were not included unless ICU is downloaded from the [source repository](http://site.icu-project.org/repository).

## ICU and CLDR Data

Most of ICU's data is sourced from [CLDR](http://cldr.unicode.org), the [Common
Locale Data Repository](http://cldr.unicode.org) project. Do not file bugs
against ICU to request data changes in CLDR, see the CLDR project's page itself.
Also note that most ICU data files are therefore autogenerated from CLDR, and so
manually editing them is not usually recommended.

Data which is NOT sourced from CLDR includes:

*   [Conversion Data](conversion/data.md)
*   Break Iterator Dictionary Data ( Thai, CJK, etc )
*   Break Iterator Rule Data (as of this writing, it is manually kept in sync
    with the CLDR datasets)

For information on building ICU data from CLDR, see the
[cldr-icu-readme](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/cldr-icu-readme.txt).

## ICU Data Directory

The ICU data directory is the default location for all ICU data. Any requests
for data items that do not include an explicit directory path will be resolved
to files located in the ICU data directory.

The ICU data directory is determined as follows:

1.  If the application has called the function `u_setDataDirectory()`, use the
    directory specified there, otherwise:

2.  If the environment variable `ICU_DATA` is set, use that, otherwise:

3.  If the C preprocessor variable `ICU_DATA_DIR` was set at the time ICU was
    built, use its compiled-in value.

4.  Otherwise, the ICU data directory is an empty string. This is the default
    behavior for ICU using a shared library for its data and provides the
    highest data loading performance.

> :point_right: **Note**: `u_setDataDirectory()` is not thread-safe. Call it
> *before* calling ICU APIs from multiple threads. If you use both
> `u_setDataDirectory()` and `u_init()`, then use `u_setDataDirectory()` first.
> 
> *Earlier versions of ICU supported two additional schemes: setting a data
> directory relative to the location of the ICU shared libraries, and on Windows,
> taking a location from the registry. These have both been removed to make the
> behavior more predictable and easier to understand.*

The ICU data directory does not need to be set in order to reference the
standard built-in ICU data. Applications that just use standard ICU capabilities
(converters, locales, collation, etc.) but do not build and reference their own
data do not need to specify an ICU data directory.

### Multiple-Item ICU Data Directory Values

The ICU data directory string can contain multiple directories as well as .dat
path/filenames. They must be separated by the path separator that is used on the
platform, for example a semicolon (`;`) on Windows. Data files will be searched in
all directories and .dat package files in the order of the directory string. For
details, see the example below.

## Default ICU Data

The default ICU data consists of the data needed for the converters, collators,
locales, etc. that are provided with ICU. Default data must be present in order
for ICU to function.

The default data is most commonly built into a shared library that is installed
with the other ICU libraries. Nothing is required of the application for this
mechanism to work. ICU provides additional options for loading the default data
if more flexibility is required.

Here are the steps followed by ICU to locate its default data. This procedure
happens only once per process, at the time an ICU data item is first requested.

1.  If the application has called the function `udata_setCommonData()`, use the
    data that was provided. The application specifies the address in memory of
    an image of an ICU common format data file (either in shared-library format
    or .dat package file format).

2.  Examine the contents of the default ICU data shared library. If it contains
    data, use that data. If the data library is empty, a stub library, proceed
    to the next step. (A data shared library must always be present in order for
    ICU to successfully link and load. A stub data library is used when the
    actual ICU common data is to be provided from another source).

3.  Dynamically load (memory map, typically) a common format (.dat) file
    containing the default ICU data. Loading is described in the section
    [How Data Loading Works](icudata#how-data-loading-works). The path to
    the data is of the form  "icudt\<version\>\<flag\>", where \<version\> is
    the two-digit ICU version number, and \<flag\> is a letter indicating the
    internal format of the file (see the
    [Sharing ICU Data Between Platforms](icudata#sharing-icu-data-between-platforms)
    section).

Once the default ICU data has been located, loading of individual data items
proceeds as described in the section
[How Data Loading Works](icudata#how-data-loading-works).

## Building and Linking against ICU data

When using ICU's configure or runConfigureICU tool to build, several different
methods of packging are available.

> :point_right: **Note**: in all cases, you **must** link all ICU tools and
applications against a "data library": either a data library containing the ICU
data, or against the "stubdata" library located in icu/source/stubdata. For
example, even if ICU is built in "files" mode, you must still link against the
"stubdata" library or an undefined symbol error occurs.

*   `--with-data-packaging=library`
    This mode builds a shared library (DLL or .so). This is the simplest mode to
    use, and is the default.
    To use: link your application against the common and data libraries.
    This is the only directly supported behavior on Windows builds.
*   `--with-data-packaging=static`
    This option builds ICU data as a single (large) static library. This mode is
    more complex to use. If you encounter errors, you may need to build ICU
    multiple times.
*   `--with-data-packaging=files`
    With this option, ICU outputs separate individual files (.res, .cnv, etc)
    which will be loaded at runtime. Read the rest of this document, especially
    the sections that discuss the ICU directory path.
*   `--with-data-packaging=archive`
    With this option, ICU outputs a single "icudt__.dat" file containing ICU
    data. Read the rest of this document, especially the sections that discuss
    the ICU directory path.

## Time Zone Data

Because time zone data requires frequent updates in response to countries
changing their transition dates for daylight saving time, ICU provides
additional options for loading time zone data from separate files, thus avoiding
the need to update a combined ICU data package. Further information is found
under [Time Zones](datetime/timezone/index.md).

## Application Data

ICU-based applications can ship and use their own data for localized strings,
custom conversion tables, etc. Each data item file must have a package name as a
prefix, and this package name must match the basename of a .dat package file, if
one is used. The package name must be used in ICU APIs, for example in
`udata_setAppData()` (instead of `udata_setCommonData()` which is only used for
ICU's own data) and in the pathname argument of `ures_open()`.

The only real difference to ICU's own data is that application data cannot be
simply loaded by specifying a NULL value for the path arguments of ICU APIs, and
application data will not be used by APIs that do not have path/package name
arguments at all.

The most important APIs that allow application data to be used are for Resource
Bundles, which are most often used for localized strings and other data. There
are also functions like `ucnv_openPackage()` that allow to specify application
data, and the `udata.h` API can be used to load any data with minimum
requirements on the binary format, and without ICU interpreting the contents of
the data.

The `pkgdata` tool, which is used to package the data into various formats (e.g.
shared library), has an option (`--without-assembly` or `-w`) to not use
assembly code when building and packaging the application specific data into a
shared library. Building the data with assembly code, which is enabled by
default, is faster and more efficient; however, there are some platform
specific issues that may arise. The `--without-assembly` option may be
necessary on certain platforms (e.g. Linux) which have trouble properly loading
application data when it was built with assembly code and is packaged as a
shared library.

## Alignment

ICU data is designed to be 16-aligned, with natural alignment of values inside
the data structure, so that the data is usable as is when memory-mapped.
("16-aligned" means that the start address is a multiple of 16 bytes.)

Memory-mapping (as well as memory allocation) provides at least 16-alignment on
modern platforms. Some CPUs require n-alignment of types of size n bytes (and
crash on unaligned reads), other CPUs usually operate faster on data that is
aligned properly.

Some of the ICU code explicitly checks for proper alignment.

The `icupkg` tool places data items into the .dat file at start offsets that are
multiples of 16 bytes.

When using `genccode` to directly write a .o/.obj file, or to write assembler
code, it specifies at least 16-alignment. When using `genccode` to write C code,
it prepends the data with a double value which should yield at least 8-alignment
on most platforms (usually `sizeof(double)=8`).

## Flexibility vs. Installation vs. Performance

There are choices that affect ICU data loading and depend on application
requirements.

### Data in Shared Libraries/DLLs vs. .dat package files

Building ICU data into shared libraries (`--with-data-packaging=library`) is the
most convenient packaging method because shared libraries (DLLs) are easily
found if they are in the same directory as the application libraries, or if they
are on the system library path. The application installer usually just copies
the ICU shared libraries in the same place. On the other hand, shared libraries
are not portable.

Packaging data into .dat files (`--with-data-packaging=archive`) allows them to
be shared across platforms, but they must either be loaded by the application
and set with `udata_setCommonData()` or `udata_setAppData()`, or they must be
in a known location that is included in the ICU data directory string. This
requires the application installer, or the application itself at runtime, to
locate the ICU and/or application data by setting the ICU data directory (see
the [ICU Data Directory](icudata#icu-data-directory) section above) or by
loading the data and providing it to one of the `udata_setXYZData()` functions.

Unlike shared libraries, .dat package files can be taken apart into separate
data item files with the decmn ICU tool. This allows post-installation
modification of a package file. The `gencmn` and `pkgdata` ICU tools can then be
used to reassemble the .dat package file.

For more information about .dat package files see the section [Sharing ICU Data
Between Platforms](icudata#sharing-icu-data-between-platforms) below.

### Data Overriding vs. Loading Performance

If the ICU data directory string is empty, then ICU will not attempt to load
data from the file system. It is then only possible to load data from the
linked-in shared library or via `udata_setCommonData()` and
`udata_setAppData()`. This is inflexible but provides the highest performance.

If the ICU data directory string is not empty, then data items are searched in
all directories and matching .dat files mentioned before checking in
already-loaded package files. This allows overriding of packaged data items with
single files after installation but costs some time for filesystem accesses.
This is usually done only once per data item; see
[User Data Caching](icudata#user-data-caching) below.

### Single Data Files vs. Packages

Single data files (`--with-data-packaging=files`) are easy to replace and can
override items inside data packages. However, it is usually desirable to reduce
the number of files during installation, and package files use less disk space
than many small files.

## How Data Loading Works

ICU data items are referenced by three names - a path, a name and a type. The
following are some examples:

path                         |   name   | type
-----------------------------|----------|-------
 c:\\some\\path\\dataLibName | test     | dat
 no path                     | cnvalias | icu
 no path                     | cp1252   | cnv
 no path                     | en       | res
 no path                     | uprops   | icu


Items with 'no path' specified are loaded from the default ICU data.

Application data items include a path, and will be loaded from user data files,
not from the ICU default data. For application data, the path argument need not
contain an actual directory, but must contain the application data's package
name after the last directory separator character (or by itself if there is no
directory). If the path argument contains a directory, then it is logically
prepended to the ICU data directory string and searched first for data. The path
argument can contain at most one directory. (Path separators like semicolon (;)
are not handled here.)

> :point_right: **Note**: The ICU data directory string itself may
contain multiple directories and path/filenames to .dat package files. See the
[ICU Data Directory](icudata#icu-data-directory) section.

It is recommended to not include the directory in the path argument but to make
sure via setting the application data or the ICU data directory string that the
data can be located. This simplifies program maintenance and improves
robustness.

See the API descriptions for the functions `udata_open()` and
`udata_openChoice()` for additional information on opening ICU data from within
an application.

Data items can exist as individual files, or a number of them can be packaged
together in a single file for greater efficiency in loading and convenience of
distribution. The combined files are called Common Files.

Based on the supplied path and name, ICU searches several possible locations
when opening data. To make things more concrete in the following descriptions,
the following values of path, name and type are used:

```
path = "c:\\some\\path\\dataLibName"
name = "test"
type = "res"
```

In this case, "dataLibName" is the "package name" part of the path argument, and
"c:\\some\\path\\" is the directory part of it.

The search sequence for the data for "test.res" is as follows (the first
successful loading attempt wins):

1.  Try to load the file "dataLibName_test.res" from c:\\some\\data\\.

2.  Try to load the file "dataLibName_test.res" from each of the directories in
    the ICU data directory string.

3.  Try to locate the data package for the package name "dataLibName".

1.  Try to locate the data package in the internal cache.

2.  Try to load the package file "dataLibName.dat" from c:\\some\\data\\.

3.  Try to load the package file "dataLibName.dat" from each of the directories
    in the ICU data directory string.

The first steps, loading the data item from an individual file, are omitted if
no directory is specified in either the path argument or the ICU data directory
string.

Package files are loaded at most once and then cached. They are identified only
by their package name. Whenever a data item is requested from a package and that
package has been loaded before, then the cached package is used immediately
instead of searching through the filesystem.

> :point_right: **Note**: ICU versions before 2.2 always searched data packages
before looking for individual files, which made it impossible to override
packaged data items. See the ICU 2.2 download page and the readme for more
information about the changes.

## User Data Caching

Once loaded, data package files are cached, and stay loaded for the duration of
the process. Any requests for data items from an already loaded data package
file are routed directly to the cached data. No additional search for loadable
files is made.

The user data cache is keyed by the base file name portion of the requested
path, with any directory portion stripped off and ignored. Using the previous
example, for the path name "c:\\some\\path\\dataLibName", the cache key is
"dataLibName". After this is cached, a subsequent request for "dataLibName", no
matter what directory path is specified, will resolve to the cached data.

Data can be explicitly added to the cache of common format data by means of the
`udata_setAppData()` function. This function takes as input the path (name) and
a pointer to a memory image of a .dat file. The data is added to the cache,
causing any subsequent requests for data items from that file name to be routed
to the cache.

Only data package files are cached. Separate data files that contain just a
single data item are not cached; for these, multiple requests to ICU to open the
data will result in multiple requests to the operating system to open the
underlying file.

However, most ICU services (Resource Bundles, conversion, etc.) themselves cache
loaded data, so that data is usually loaded only once until the end of the
process (or until `u_cleanup()` or `ucnv_flushCache()` or similar are called.)

There is no mechanism for removing or updating cached data files.

## Directory Separator Characters

If a directory separator (generally '/' or '\\') is needed in a path parameter,
use the form that is native to the platform. The ICU header `"putil.h"` defines
`U_FILE_SEP_CHAR` appropriately for the platform.

> :point_right: **Note**: On Windows, the directory separator must be '\\' for
any paths passed to ICU APIs. This is different from native Windows APIs, which
generally allow either '/' or '\\'.

## Sharing ICU Data Between Platforms

ICU's default data is (at the time of this writing) about 8 MB in size. Because
it is normally built as a shared library, the file format is specific to each
platform (operating system). The data libraries can not be shared between
platforms even though the actual data contents are identical.

By distributing the default data in the form of common format .dat files rather
than as shared libraries, a single data file can be shared among multiple
platforms. This is beneficial if a single distribution of the application (a CD,
for example) includes binaries for many platforms, and the size requirements for
replicating the ICU data for each platform are a problem.

ICU common format data files are not completely interchangeable between
platforms. The format depends on these properties of the platform:

1.  Byte Ordering (little endian vs. big endian)

2.  Base character set - ASCII or EBCDIC

This means, for example, that ICU data files are interchangeable between Windows
and Linux on X86 (both are ASCII little endian), or between Macintosh and
Solaris on SPARC (both are ASCII big endian), but not between Solaris on SPARC
and Solaris on X86 (different byte ordering).

The single letter following the version number in the file name of the default
ICU data file encodes the properties of the file as follows:

```
icudt19l.dat Little Endian, ASCII
icudt19b.dat Big Endian, ASCII
icudt19e.dat Big Endian, EBCDIC
```

(There are no little endian EBCDIC systems. All non-EBCDIC encodings include an
invariant subset of ASCII that is sufficient to enable these files to
interoperate.)

The packaging of the default ICU data as a .dat file rather than as a shared
library is requested by using an option in the configure script at build time.
Nothing is required at run time; ICU finds and uses whatever form of the data is
available.

> :point_right: **Note**: When the ICU data is built in the form of shared
libraries, the library names have platform-specific prefixes and suffixes. On
Unix-style platforms, all the libraries have the "lib" prefix and one of the
usual (".dll", ".so", ".sl", etc.) suffixes. Other than these prefixes and
suffixes, the library names are the same as the above .dat files.

## Customizing ICU's Data Library

ICU includes a standard library of data that is about 16 MB in size. Most of
this consists of conversion tables and locale information. The data itself is
normally placed into a single shared library.

Update: as of ICU 64, the standard data library is over 20 MB in size. We have
introduced a new tool, the [ICU Data Build Tool](icu_data/buildtool.md),
to replace the makefiles explained below and give you more control over what
goes into your ICU locale data file.

### Adding Converters to ICU

The first step is to obtain or create a .ucm (source) mapping data file for the
desired converter. A large archive of converter data is maintained by the ICU
team at <https://github.com/unicode-org/icu-data/tree/master/charset/data/ucm>

We will use `solaris-eucJP-2.7.ucm`, available from the repository mentioned
above, as an example.

#### Build the Converter

Converter source files are compiled into binary converter files (.cnv files) by
using the icu tool makeconv. For the example, you can use this command

```
makeconv -v solaris-eucJP-2.7.ucm
```

Some of the .ucm files from the repository will need additional header
information before they can be built. Use the error messages from the makeconv
tool, .ucm files for similar converters, and the ICU user guide documentation of
.ucm files as a guide when making changes. For the `solaris-eucJP-2.7.ucm`
example, we will borrow the missing header fields from
`source/data/mappings/ibm-33722_P12A-2000.ucm`, which is the standard ICU eucJP
converter data.

The ucm file format is described in the
["Conversion Data" chapter](conversion/data.md) of this user guide.

After adjustment, the header of the `solaris-eucJP-2.7.ucm` file contains these
items:

```
<code_set_name>   "solaris-eucJP-2.7"
<subchar>         \\x3F
<uconv_class>     "MBCS"

<mb_cur_max>      3
<mb_cur_min>      1

<icu:state>       0-8d, 8e:2, 8f:3, 90-9f, a1-fe:1
<icu:state>       a1-fe
<icu:state>       a1-e4
<icu:state>       a1-fe:1, a1:4, a3-af:4, b6:4, d6:4, da-db:4, ed-f2:4
<icu:state>       a1-fe
```

The binary converter file produced by the `makeconv` tool is
`solaris-eucJP-2.7.cnv`.

#### Installation

Copy the new .cnv file to the desired location for use. Set the environment
variable `ICU_DATA` to the directory containing the data, or, alternatively,
from within an application, tell ICU the location of the new data with the
function `u_setDataDirectory()` before using the new converter.

If ICU is already obtaining data from files rather than a shared library,
install the new file in the same location as the existing ICU data file(s), and
don't change/set the environment variable or data directory.

If you do not want to add a converter to ICU's base data, you can also generate
a conversion table with `makeconv`, use pkgdata to generate your own package and
use the `ucnv_openPackage()` to open up a converter with that conversion table
from the generated package.

#### Building the new converter into ICU

The need to install a separate file and inform ICU of the data directory can be
avoided by building the new converter into ICU's standard data library. Here is
the procedure for doing so:

1.  Move the .ucm file(s) for the converter(s) to be added (
    `solaris-eucJP-2.7.ucm` for our example) into the directory
    `source/data/mappings/`

2.  Create, or edit, if it already exists, the file
    `source/data/mappings/ucmlocal.mk`. Add this line:
    
    ```
    UCM_SOURCE_LOCAL = solaris-eucJP-2.7.ucm
    ```
    
    Any number of converters can be listed. Extend the list to new lines with a
    back slash at the end of the line. The `ucmlocal.mk` file is described in
    more detail in `source/data/mappings/ucmfiles.mk` (Even though they use very
    different build systems, `ucmlocal.mk` is used for both the Windows and UNIX
    builds.)

3.  Add the converter name and aliases to `source/data/mappings/convrtrs.txt`.
    This will allow your converter to be shown in the list of available
    converters when you call the `ucnv_getAvailableName(`) function. The file
    syntax is described within the file.

4.  Rebuild the ICU data.
    For Windows, from MSVC choose the makedata project from the GUI, then build
    the project.
    For UNIX, `cd icu/source/data; gmake`

When opening an ICU converter (`ucnv_open()`), the converter name can not be
qualified with a path that indicates the directory or common data file
containing the corresponding converter data. The required data must be present
either in the main ICU data library or as a separate .cnv file located in the
ICU data directory. This is different from opening resources or other types of
ICU data, which do allow a path.

### Adding Locale Data to ICU's Data

If you have data for a locale that is not included in ICU's standard build, then
you can add it to the build in a very similar way as with conversion tables
above. The ICU project provides a large number of additional locales in its
[locale
repository](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/locales/)
on the web. Most of this locale data is derived from the CLDR ([Common Locale
Data Repository](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/)) project.

Dropping the txt file into the correct place in the source tree is sufficient to
add it to your ICU build. You will need to re-configure in order to pick it up.

## Customizing ICU's Data Library for ICU 63 or earlier
The ICU data library can be easily customized, either by adding additional converters or locales, or by removing some of the standard ones for the purpose of saving space.

> :point_right: **Note**: ICU for C by default comes with pre-built data.
The source data files are included as an "icu\*data.zip" file starting in ICU4C
49. Previously, they were not included unless ICU is downloaded from the
[source repository](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu). Alternatively, the
[Data Customizer](http://apps.icu-project.org/datacustom/) may be used to
customize the pre-built data.

ICU can load data from individual data files as well as from its default
library, so building a customized library when adding additional data is not
strictly necessary. Adding to ICU's library can simplify application
installation by eliminating the need to include separate files with an
application distribution, and the need to tell ICU where they are installed.

Reducing the size of ICU's data by eliminating unneeded resources can make
sense on small systems with limited or no disk, but for desktop or server
systems there is no real advantage to trimming. ICU's data is memory mapped
into an application's address space, and only those portions of the data
actually being used are ever paged in, so there are no significant RAM savings.
As for disk space, with the large size of today's hard drives, saving a few MB
is not worth the bother.

By default, ICU builds with a large set of converters and with all available
locales. This means that any extra items added must be provided by the
application developer. There is no extra ICU-supplied data that could be
specified.

### Details

The converters and resources that ICU builds are in the following configuration
files. They are only available when building from ICU's source code repository.
Normally, the standard ICU distribution do not include these files.

File                              | Description
----------------------------------|--------------
source/data/locales/resfiles.mk   | The standard set of locale data resource bundles
source/data/locales/reslocal.mk   | User-provided file with additional resource bundles
source/data/coll/colfiles.mk      | The standard set of collation data resource bundles
source/data/coll/collocal.mk      | User-provided file with additional collation resource bundles
source/data/brkitr/brkfiles.mk    | The standard set of break iterator data resource bundles
source/data/brkitr/brklocal.mk    | User-provided file with additional break iterator resource bundles
source/data/translit/trnsfiles.mk | The standard set of transliterator resource files
source/data/translit/trnslocal.mk | User-provided file with a set of additional transliterator resource files
source/data/mappings/ucmcore.mk   | Core set of conversion tables for MIME/Unix/Windows
source/data/mappings/ucmfiles.mk  | Additional, large set of conversion tables for a wide range of uses
source/data/mappings/ucmebcdic.mk | Large set of EBCDIC conversion tables
source/data/mappings/ucmlocal.mk  | User-provided file with additional conversion tables
source/data/misc/miscfiles.mk     | Miscellaneous data, like timezone information 

These files function identically for both Windows and UNIX builds of ICU. ICU
will automatically update the list of installed locales returned by
`uloc_getAvailable()` whenever `resfiles.mk` or `reslocal.mk` are updated and
the ICU data library is rebuilt. These files are only needed while building ICU.
If any of these files are removed or renamed, the size of the ICU data library
will be reduced.

The optional files `reslocal.mk` and `ucmlocal.mk` are not included as part of
a standard ICU distribution. Thus these customization files do not need to be
merged or updated when updating versions of ICU.

Both `reslocal.mk` and `ucmlocal.mk` are makefile includes. So the usual rules
for makefiles apply. Lines may be continued by preceding the end of the line to
be continued with a back slash. Lines beginning with a # are comments. See
`ucmfiles.mk` and `resfiles.mk` for additional information.

### Reducing the Size of ICU's Data: Conversion Tables

The size of the ICU data file in the standard build configuration is about 8 MB.
The majority of this is used for conversion tables. ICU comes with so many
conversion tables because many ICU users need to support many encodings from
many platforms. There are conversion tables for EBCDIC and DOS codepages, for
ISO 2022 variants, and for small variations of popular encodings.

> :point_right: **Important**: ICU provides full internationalization
functionality without **any** conversion table data. The common library
contains code to handle several important encodings algorithmically: US-ASCII,
ISO-8859-1, UTF-7/8/16/32, SCSU, BOCU-1, CESU-8, and IMAP-mailbox-name (i.e.,
US-ASCII, ISO-8859-1, and all Unicode charsets; see
source/data/mappings/convrtrs.txt for the current list).

Therefore, the easiest way to reduce the size of ICU's data by a lot (without
limitation of I18N support) is to reduce the number of conversion tables that
are built into the data file.

The conversion tables are listed for the build process in several makefiles
`source/data/mappings/ucm\*.mk`, roughly grouped by how commonly they are used.
If you remove or rename any of these files, then the ICU build will exclude the
conversion tables that are listed in that file. Beginning with ICU 2.0, all of
these makefiles including the main one are optional. If you remove all of them,
then ICU will include only very few conversion tables for "fallback" encodings
(see note below).

If you remove or rename all `ucm\*.mk` files, then ICU's data is reduced to
about 3.6 MB. If you remove all these files except for `ucmcore.mk`, then ICU's
data is reduced to about 4.7 MB, while keeping support for a core set of common
MIME/Unix/Windows encodings.

> :point_right: **Note**: If you remove the conversion table for an encoding
that could be a default encoding on one of your platforms, then ICU will not be
able to instantiate a default converter. In this case, ICU 2.0 and up will
automatically fall back to a "lowest common denominator" and load a converter
for US-ASCII (or, on EBCDIC platforms, for codepages 37 or 1047). This will be
good enough for converting strings that contain only "ASCII" characters (see the
comment about "invariant characters" in `utypes.h`).
*When ICU is built with a reduced set of conversion tables, then some tests will
fail that test the behavior of the converters based on known features of some
encodings. Also, building the testdata will fail if you remove some conversion
tables that are necessary for that (to test non-ASCII/Unicode resource bundle
source files, for example). You can ignore these failures. Build with the
standard set of conversion tables, if you want to run the tests.* 

### Reducing the Size of ICU's Data: Locale Data

If you need to reduce the size of ICU's data even further, then you need to
remove other files or parts of files from the build as well.

There are a number of different subdirectories of 'data' containing locale data
split out by section. Each subdirectory has its own **.mk** file listing the
locales which will be built. Subdirectories include **lang** for language names
and **curr** for currency names.

You can remove data for entire locales by removing their files from
`source/data/locales/resfiles.mk` or the appropriate other .mk file. ICU will
then use the data of the parent locale instead, which is root.txt. If you
remove all resource bundles for a given language and its country/region/variant
sublocales, **do not remove root.txt!** Also, do not remove a parent locale if
child locales exist. For example, do not remove "en" while retaining "en_US".

### Reducing the Size of ICU's Data: Collation Data

Collation data (for sorting, searching and alphabetic indexes) is also large,
especially the collation data for East Asian languages because they define
multiple orderings of tens of thousands of Han characters. You can remove the
collation data for those languages by removing references to those locales from
`source/data/coll/colfiles.mk` files. When you do that, the collation for those
languages will fall back to the root collator, that is, you lose
language-specific behavior.

A much less radical approach is to keep the collation data tables but remove the
tailoring rule strings from which they were built. Those rule strings are
rarely used at runtime. For documentation about their use and how to remove
them see the section "Building on Existing Locales" in the
[Collation Customization chapter](collation/customization/index.md).

### Adding Locale Data to ICU's Data
You need to write a resource bundle file for it with a structure like the
existing locale resource bundles (e.g. `source/data/locales/ja.txt, ru_RU.txt`,
`kok_IN.txt`) and add it by writing a file `source/data/locales/reslocal.mk`
just like above. In this file, define the list of additional resource bundles as

```
GENRB_SOURCE_LOCAL=myLocale.txt other.txt ...
```

Starting in ICU 2.2, these added locales are automatically listed by
`uloc_getAvailable()`.

## ICU Data File Formats

ICU uses several kinds of data files with specific source (plain text) and
binary data formats. The following lists provides links to descriptions of those
formats.

Each ICU data object begins with a header before the actual, specific data. The
header consists of a 16-bit header length value, the two "magic" bytes DA 27 and
a [UDataInfo](https://unicode-org.github.io/icu-docs/apidoc/released/icu4c/structUDataInfo.html#_details)
structure which specifies the data object's endianness, charset family, format,
data version, etc.

(This is not the case for the trie structures, which are not stand-alone,
loadable data objects.)

### Public Data Files

#### ICU.dat package files
*   Source format: (list of files provided as input to the icupkg tool, or
         on the gencmn tool command line)
*    Binary format: .dat:
     [source/tools/toolutil/pkg_gencmn.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/toolutil/pkg_gencmn.cpp)
*    Generator tool:
         [icupkg](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/icupkg)
         or
         [gencmn](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gencmn)
         
#### Resource bundles
*   Source format: .txt:
    [icuhtml/design/bnf_rb.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu-docs/blob/master/design/bnf_rb.txt)
*   Binary format: .res:
    [source/common/uresdata.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/uresdata.h)
*   Generator tool:
    [genrb](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/genrb)

#### Unicode conversion mapping tables
*   Source format: .ucm: [Conversion Data chapter](conversion/data.md)
*   Binary format: .cnv:
    [source/common/ucnvmbcs.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/ucnvmbcs.h)
*   Generator tool:
    [makeconv](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/makeconv)

#### Conversion (charset) aliases
*   Source format:
    [source/data/mappings/convrtrs.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/mappings/convrtrs.txt):
    contains format description. The command "uconv -l --canon" will also
    generate the alias table from the currently used copy of ICU.
*   Binary format: cnvalias.icu:
    [source/common/ucnv_io.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/ucnv_io.cpp)
*   Generator tool:
    [gencnval](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gencnval)

#### Unicode Character Data (Properties; for Java only: hardcoded in C common library)
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/ppucd.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata/ppucd.txt):
    [Preparsed UCD](http://site.icu-project.org/design/props/ppucd)
*   Binary format: uprops.icu:
    [tools/unicode/c/genprops/corepropsbuilder.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops/corepropsbuilder.cpp)
*   Generator tool:
    [genprops](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops)

#### Unicode Character Data (Case mappings; for Java only: hardcoded in C common library)
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/*.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata):
    [Unicode Character Database](http://www.unicode.org/onlinedat/online.html)
*   Binary format: ucase.icu:
    [tools/unicode/c/genprops/casepropsbuilder.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops/casepropsbuilder.cpp)
*   Generator tool:
    [genprops](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops)

#### Unicode Character Data (BiDi, and Arabic shaping; for Java only: hardcoded in C common library)
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/*.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata):
    [Unicode Character Database](http://www.unicode.org/onlinedat/online.html)
*   Binary format: ubidi.icu:
    [tools/unicode/c/genprops/bidipropsbuilder.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops/bidipropsbuilder.cpp)
*   Generator tool:
    [genprops](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops)

#### Unicode Character Data (Normalization since ICU 4.4) & custom normalization data
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/norm2/*.tx](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata/norm2):
    Files derived from the [Unicode Character
    Database](http://www.unicode.org/onlinedat/online.html), or custom data.
*   Binary format: .nrm:
    [source/common/normalizer2impl.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/normalizer2impl.h)
*   Generator tool:
    [gennorm2](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gennorm2)

#### Unicode Character Data (Character names)
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/UnicodeData.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata/UnicodeData.txt):
    [Unicode Character Database](http://www.unicode.org/onlinedat/online.html)
*   Binary format: unames.icu:
    [tools/unicode/c/genprops/namespropsbuilder.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops/namespropsbuilder.cpp)
*   Generator tool:
    [genprops](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops)

#### Unicode Character Data (Property [value] aliases since ICU 4.8; for Java only: hardcoded in C common library since ICU 4.8)
*   Source format: [UCD Property*Aliases.txt](http://www.unicode.org/Public/UNIDATA/):
                   [Unicode Character Database](http://www.unicode.org/onlinedat/online.html)
*   Binary format: pnames.icu:
    [source/common/propname.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/propname.h)
*   Generator tool:
    [genprops](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops)

#### Unicode Character Data (Text layout properties since ICU 64)
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/ppucd.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata/ppucd.txt):
    [Preparsed UCD](http://site.icu-project.org/design/props/ppucd)
*   Binary format: ulayout.icu:
    [tools/unicode/c/genprops/layoutpropsbuilder.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops/layoutpropsbuilder.cpp)
*   Generator tool:
    [genprops](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genprops)

#### Collation data (root collation & tailorings; ICU 53 & later)
*   Source format: Original data from allkeys_CLDR.txt in
    [CLDR Root Collation Data Files](http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-collation.html#Root_Data_Files)
    processed into
    [source/data/unidata/FractionalUCA.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata/FractionalUCA.txt)
    by
    [tool at unicode.org maintained by Mark Davis](https://sites.google.com/site/unicodetools/#TOC-UCA)
    (call the Main class with option writeFractionalUCA); source tailorings (text rules) in
    [source/data/coll/*.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/coll)
    resource bundles: [Collation Customization chapter](collation/customization/index.md).
*   Binary format: ucadata.icu & binary tailorings in resource bundles:
    [source/i18n/collationdatareader.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/i18n/collationdatareader.h)
*   Generator tool:
    [genuca](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genuca),
    [genrb](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/genrb)

#### Rule-based break iterator data
*   Source format: .txt: [Boundary Analysis chapter](boundaryanalysis/index.md)
*   Binary format: .brk:
    [source/common/rbbidata.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/rbbidata.h)
*   Generator tool:
    [genbrk](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/genbrk)

#### Dictionary-based break iterator data (ICU 50 & later)
*   Source format: txt: [gendict.cpp
    comments](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gendict/gendict.cpp)
*   Binary format: .dict: see
    [source/common/dictionarydata.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/dictionarydata.h
*   Generator tool:
    [gendict](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gendict)

#### Rule-based transform (transliterator) data
*   Source format: .txt (in resource bundles): [Transform Rule Tutorial chapter](transforms/general/rules.md)
*   Binary format: Uses genrb to make binary format
*   Generator tool: Does not apply

#### Time zone data (ICU 4.4 & later)
*   Source format:
    [source/data/misc/zoneinfo64.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/misc/zoneinfo64.txt):
    ftp://elsie.nci.nih.gov/pub/ tzdata<year><rev>.tar.gz
*   Binary format: zoneinfo64.res (generated by genrb and
    [tzcode tools](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/tzcode/readme.txt)).
*   Generator tool: Does not apply

#### StringPrep profile data
*   Source format:
    [source/data/sprep/rfc3491.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/sprep/rfc3491.txt):
*   Binary format: .spp:
    [source/tools/gensprep/store.c](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gensprep/store.c)
*   Generator tool:
    [gensprep](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gensprep)

#### Confusables data
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/confusables.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata/confusables.txt),
    [source/data/unidata/confusablesWholeScript.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata/confusablesWholeScript.txt)
*   Binary format: .spp:
    [confusables.cfu: source/i18n/uspoof_impl.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/i18n/uspoof_impl.h)
*   Generator tool: [gencfu](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gencfu)

### Public Data Files (old versions)

#### Unicode Character Data (Normalization before ICU 4.4; for Java only: was hardcoded in C common library)
*   Source format:
    [source/data/unidata/*.txt]((https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/unidata):
    [Unicode Character Database](http://www.unicode.org/onlinedat/online.html)
*   Binary format: unorm.icu:
    [source/common/unormimp.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/unormimp.h)
*   Generator tool: gennorm

#### Unicode Character Data (Property [value] aliases before ICU 4.8)
*   Source format: source/data/unidata/Property*Aliases.txt: [Unicode Character Database](http://www.unicode.org/onlinedat/online.html)
*   Binary format: pnames.icu: source/common/propname.h (ICU 4.6)
*   Generator tool: genpname

#### Collation data (UCA, code points to weights; ICU 52 & earlier)
*   Source format: Same as in ICU 53
*   Binary format: ucadata.icu & binary tailorings in resource bundles: source/i18n/ucol_imp.h (ICU 52)
*   Generator tool:
    [genuca](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genuca),
    [genrb](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/genrb)

#### Collation data (Inverse UCA, weights->code points; ICU 52 & earlier)
*   Source format: Processed from FractionalUCA.txt like ICU 52 ucadata.icu
*   Binary format: invuca.icu: source/i18n/ucol_imp.h (ICU 52)
*   Generator tool:
    [genuca](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/tools/unicode/c/genuca)

#### Dictionary-based break iterator data (ICU 49 & earlier)
*   Source format: .txt: genctd.cpp comments
*   Binary format: ctd: see CompactTrieHeader in source/common/triedict.cpp
*   Generator tool: genctd

#### Time zone data (Before ICU 4.4)
*   Source format: .source/data/misc/zoneinfo.txt (ICU 4.2): ftp://elsie.nci.nih.gov/pub/ tzdata<year><rev>.tar.gz 
*   Binary format: zoneinfo64.res (generated by genrb and
    [tzcode tools](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/tzcode/readme.txt)).
*   Generator tool: Does not apply

### Non-File API Binary Data

#### Converter selector data
*   Source format: none
*   Binary format:
    [source/common/ucnvsel.cpp](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/ucnvsel.cpp)
*   Generator tool:
    [ucnvsel_open()](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/ucnvsel.cpp)

### Test-Only Data Files

#### test.icu (for udata API testing)
*   Source format: none (fixed output from gentest when not using -r or -j options)
*   Binary format: test.icu: see `createData()` in
                   [source/tools/gentest/gentest.c](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gentest/gentest.c)
*   Generator tool:
    [gentest](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/tools/gentest/gentest.c)

### Other Data Structures

#### UCPTrie (C)/CodePointTrie (Java) (maps code points to integers)
*   Source format: (public builder API)
*   Binary format:
    [ICU Code Point Tries design doc](http://site.icu-project.org/design/struct/utrie),
    [icu4c/source/common/ucptrie_impl.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/ucptrie_impl.h)
*   Generator tool: (builder class)

#### UTrie2 (C)/Trie2 (Java) (maps code points to integers)
*   Source format: (internal builder API)
*   Binary format:
    [ICU Code Point Tries design doc](http://site.icu-project.org/design/struct/utrie),
    [icu4c/source/common/utrie2_impl.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/utrie2_impl.h)
*   Generator tool: (builder class)

#### BytesTrie (maps byte sequences to 32-bit integers)
*   Source format: (public builder API)
*   Binary format:
    [BytesTrie design doc](http://site.icu-project.org/design/struct/tries/bytestrie),
    [icu4c/source/common/unicode/bytestrie.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/unicode/bytestrie.h)
*   Generator tool: (builder class)

#### UCharsTrie (C++)/CharsTrie (Java) (maps 16-bit-Unicode strings to 32-bit integers)
*   Source format: (public builder API)
*   Binary format:
    [UCharsTrie design doc](http://site.icu-project.org/design/struct/tries/ucharstrie),
    [icu4c/source/common/unicode/ucharstrie.h](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/common/unicode/ucharstrie.h)
*   Generator tool: (builder class)

## ICU4J Resource Information

Starting with release 2.1, ICU4J includes its own resource information which is
completely independent of the JRE resource information. (Note, ICU4J 2.8 to 3.4,
time zone information depends on the underlying JRE). The new ICU4J information
is equivalent to the information in ICU4C and many resources are, in fact, the
same binary files that ICU4C uses.

By default the ICU4J distribution includes all of the standard resource
information. It is located under the directory `com/ibm/icu/impl/data`.
Depending on the service, the data is in different locations and in different
formats. Note: This will continue to change from release to release, so clients
should not depend on the exact organization of the data in ICU4J.

1.  The primary **locale data** is under the directory icudt38b, as a set of
    ".res" files whose names are the locale identifiers. Locale naming is
    documented in the `com.ibm.icu.util.ULocale` class, and the use of these
    names in     searching for resources is documented in
    `com.ibm.icu.util.UResourceBundle`.

2.  The **collation data** is under the directory `icudt38b/coll`, as a set of
    ".res" files.

3.  The **rule-based transliterator data** is under the directory
    `icudt38b/translit` as a set of ".res" files. (**Note:** the Han
    transliterator test data is no longer included in the core icu4j.jar file by
    default.)

4.  The **rule-based number format data** is under the directory `icudt38b/rbnf`
    as a set of ".res" files.

5.  The **break iterator data** is directly under the data directory, as a set
    of ".brk" files, named according to the type of break and the locale where
    there are locale-specific versions.

6.  The **holiday data** is under the data directory, as a set of ".class"
    files, named "HolidayBundle_" followed by the locale ID.

7.  The **character property data** as well as assorted **normalization data**
    and default **unicode collation algorithm (UCA) data** is found under the
    data directory as a set of ".icu" files.

8.  The **character set converter data** is under the directory `icudt38b/`, as
    a set of ".cnv" files. These files are currently included only in
    icu-charset.jar.

9.  The **time zone data** is named `zoneinfo.res` under the directory
    `icudt38b`.

Some of the data files alias or otherwise reference data from other data files.
One reason for this is because some locale names have changed. For example,
he_IL used to be iw_IL. In order to support both names but not duplicate the
data, one of the resource files refers to the other file's data. In other cases,
a file may alias a portion of another file's data in order to save space.
Currently ICU4J provides no tool for revealing these dependencies.

> :point_right: **Note**: Java's Locale class silently converts the language
code "he" to "iw" when you construct the Locale (for versions of Java through
Java 5). Thus Java cannot be used to locate resources that use the "he" language
code. ICU, on the other hand, does not perform this conversion in ULocale, and
instead uses aliasing in the locale data to represent the same set of data under
different locale ids.

Resource files that use locale ids form a hierarchy, with up to four levels: a
root, language, region (country), and variant. Searches for locale data attempt
to match as far down the hierarchy as possible, for example, "he_IL" will match
he_IL, but "he_US" will match he (since there is no US variant for he, and
"xx_YY will match root (the default fallback locale) since there is no xx
language code in the locale hierarchy. Again, see `java.util.ResourceBundle` for
more information.

Currently ICU4J provides no tool for revealing these dependencies between data
files, so trimming the data directly in the ICU4J project is a hit-or-miss
affair. The key point when you remove data is to make sure to remove all
dependencies on that data as well. For example, if you remove he.res, you need
to remove he_IL.res, since it is lower in the hierarchy, and you must remove
iw.res, since it references he.res, and iw_IL.res, since it depends on it (and
also references he_IL.res).

Unfortunately, the jar tool in the JDK provides no way to remove items from a
jar file. Thus you have to extract the resources, remove the ones you don't
want, and then create a new jar file with the remaining resources. See the jar
tool information for how to do this. Before 'rejaring' the files, be sure to
thoroughly test your application with the remaining resources, making sure each
required resource is present.

#### Using additional resource files with ICU4J

> :point_right: **Note**: Resource file formats can change across releases of ICU4J!
> 
> *The format of ICU4J resources is not part of the API. Clients who develop their
> own resources for use with ICU4J should be prepared to regenerate them when they
> move to new releases of ICU4J.*

We are still developing ICU4J's resource mechanism. Currently it is not possible
to mix icu's new binary .res resources with traditional java-style .class or
.txt resources. We might allow for this in a future release, but since the
resource data and format is not formally supported, you run the risk of
incompatibilities with future releases of ICU4J.

Resource data in ICU4J is checked in to the repository as a jar file containing
the resource binaries, icudata.jar. This means that inspecting the contents of
these resources is difficult. They currently are compiled from ICU4C .txt file
data. You can view the contents of the ICU4C text resource files to understand
the contents of the ICU4J resources.

The files in icudata.jar get extracted to com/ibm/icu/impl/data in the build
directory when the 'core' target is built. Building the 'resources' target will
force the resources to once again be extracted. Extraction will overwrite any
corresponding resource files already in that directory.

### Building ICU4J Resources from ICU4C

#### Requirements

1.  [ICU4C](http://icu-project.org/download/)

2.  Compilers and tools required for [building ICU4C](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/readme.html#HowToBuild).

3.  J2SE SDK version 5 or above

#### Procedure

1.  Download and build ICU4C on a Windows or Linux machine. For instructions on downloading and building ICU4C, please click
    [here](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/readme.html#HowToBuild).

2.  Follow the remaining instructions in
    [*$icu4c_root*/source/data/icu4j-readme.txt](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu/blob/master/icu4c/source/data/icu4j-readme.txt).
    *$icu4c_root* is the root directory of ICU4C source package.
